# GOT_Network_Analysis
Network analysis based on distance of association to main surnames in the HBO show "Game of Thrones"

This network analysis is based on data generated by Andrew Beveridge and Michael Chemers in 2018 using NLP methods and web-scraping from fan-generated scripts. The raw data and prior analyses can be viewed at Dr. Beveridge's GitHub and blog, which are linked below.

Distance of association to surnames, including Lannister, Targaryen, Stark, Baratheon, Tyrell, Arryn, Greyjoy, Tully, Mormont, Bolton, and Martell, is defined as:
1 - original surname, character was born with this surname
2 - parent surname, character has a parent with this surname
3 - married into surname, character takes this surname after legal marriage

Each character is defaulted to their smallest associative distance to yield one distance per surname. For example, a character may be born with surname X (distance of 1) and marry a character with surname X (distance of 3), but their score defaults to 1. However, a character may have associations with more than one surname, so if the same character has a mother with surname Y (distance of 2), then they would have two associations with different distances.

Using RStudio (v 4.2), I combined the data from seasons 1-8 to create a set of unique character pairs with counts for the frequency of their interactions throughout the show. I subsetted the data to include the 100 characters who were most strongly connected within an undirected, weighted network. Then I manually added gender, surname, and associative distances for the subset of characters. Within an undirected, weighted network of this subset, density measured at .256, degree centralization measured at .471, and transitivity measured at .525. Further statistics are also computed in the code.

You may use this code as a jumping off point to explore further network analyses, such as assortativity.

[https://github.com/mathbeveridge/gameofthrones](url)

[https://networkofthrones.wordpress.com/](url)
